I LOOK OUT HERE AND IT LOOKS LIKE MY OLE NEIGHBORHOOD, READY
LIKE MY OLE NEIGHBORHOOD, READY TO TAKE ANYBODY ON.
TO TAKE ANYBODY ON. >>> WE’RE LEARNING EXPLOSIVE NEW
>>> WE’RE LEARNING EXPLOSIVE NEW DETAILS ABOUT THE LARGEST
DETAILS ABOUT THE LARGEST COLLEGE ADMISSIONS SCAM
COLLEGE ADMISSIONS SCAM PROSECUTED BOY THE DEPARTMENT OF
PROSECUTED BOY THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE EVER.
JUSTICE EVER. PROSECUTORS SAY 50 PEOPLE ARE
PROSECUTORS SAY 50 PEOPLE ARE BEING CHARGED NATIONWIDE IN
BEING CHARGED NATIONWIDE IN CONNECTION WITH A $25 MILLION
CONNECTION WITH A $25 MILLION CHEATING SCHEME DESIGNED TO GET
CHEATING SCHEME DESIGNED TO GET STUDENTS INTO ELITE
STUDENTS INTO ELITE UNIVERSITIES.
UNIVERSITIES. MUCH OF THE INDICTMENT TIES TO
MUCH OF THE INDICTMENT TIES TO WILLIAM "RICK" SINGER, THE
WILLIAM "RICK" SINGER, THE FOUNDER OF A FOR-PROFIT
FOUNDER OF A FOR-PROFIT COUNSELING AND PREPARATION
COUNSELING AND PREPARATION BUSINESS CALLED THE KEY.
BUSINESS CALLED THE KEY. HE JUST ARRIVED TO A FEDERAL
HE JUST ARRIVED TO A FEDERAL COURT IN BOSTON.
COURT IN BOSTON. HIS SCHEME WAS TWOFOLD.
HIS SCHEME WAS TWOFOLD. HELPING STUDENTS CHEAT ON
HELPING STUDENTS CHEAT ON COLLEGE ENTRANCE EXAMS AND
COLLEGE ENTRANCE EXAMS AND PAYING BRIBES TO GET KIDS INTO
PAYING BRIBES TO GET KIDS INTO SCHOOLS WITH FAKE ATHLETIC
SCHOOLS WITH FAKE ATHLETIC CREDENTIALS.
CREDENTIALS. >> WITH RESPECT TO THE S.A.T.
>> WITH RESPECT TO THE S.A.T. AND A.C.T. SCHEME, NUMEROUS
AND A.C.T. SCHEME, NUMEROUS PARENTS PAID SINGER BETWEEN
PARENTS PAID SINGER BETWEEN $15,000 AND $75,000 TO HAVE
$15,000 AND $75,000 TO HAVE SOMEONE EITHER TAKE THE EXAM FOR
SOMEONE EITHER TAKE THE EXAM FOR THEIR CHILD OR TO CORRECT THEIR
THEIR CHILD OR TO CORRECT THEIR CHILD’S ANSWERS AFTERWARD.
CHILD’S ANSWERS AFTERWARD. ALL TO ACHIEVE A SUFFICIENTLY
ALL TO ACHIEVE A SUFFICIENTLY HIGH PREAGREED SCORE ON THOSE
HIGH PREAGREED SCORE ON THOSE TESTS.
TESTS. SINGER COUNSELLED PARENTS TO
SINGER COUNSELLED PARENTS TO TAKE THEIR CHILDREN TO A
TAKE THEIR CHILDREN TO A THERAPIST AND GET A LETTER
THERAPIST AND GET A LETTER SAYING THAT BECAUSE OF PURPORTED
SAYING THAT BECAUSE OF PURPORTED LEARNING DISABILITIES OR OTHER
LEARNING DISABILITIES OR OTHER ISSUES, THE CHILD NEEDED
ISSUES, THE CHILD NEEDED ADDITIONAL TIME TO COMPLETE THE
ADDITIONAL TIME TO COMPLETE THE A.C.T. OR THE S.A.T.
A.C.T. OR THE S.A.T. PARENTS ALSO PAID SINGER MONEY
PARENTS ALSO PAID SINGER MONEY THAT HE THEN USED TO BRIBE
THAT HE THEN USED TO BRIBE COACHES AND ADMINISTRATORS TO
COACHES AND ADMINISTRATORS TO DESIGNATE THEIR CHILDREN AS
DESIGNATE THEIR CHILDREN AS RECRUITED ATHLETES FOR VARIOUS
RECRUITED ATHLETES FOR VARIOUS SCHOOLS.
SCHOOLS. SINGER WORKED WITH THE PARENTS
SINGER WORKED WITH THE PARENTS TO FABRICATE IMPRESSIVE ATHLETIC
TO FABRICATE IMPRESSIVE ATHLETIC PROFILES FOR THEIR KIDS,
PROFILES FOR THEIR KIDS, INCLUDING FAKE ATHLETIC
INCLUDING FAKE ATHLETIC CREDENTIALS OR HONORS OR FAKE
CREDENTIALS OR HONORS OR FAKE PARTICIPATION IN ELITE CLUB
PARTICIPATION IN ELITE CLUB TEAMS.
TEAMS. IN MANY INSTANCES, SINGER HELPED
IN MANY INSTANCES, SINGER HELPED PARENTS TAKE STAGED PHOTOGRAPHS
PARENTS TAKE STAGED PHOTOGRAPHS OF THEIR CHILDREN ENGAGED IN
OF THEIR CHILDREN ENGAGED IN PARTICULAR SPORTS.
PARTICULAR SPORTS. >> STAGED PHOTOGRAPHS OF
>> STAGED PHOTOGRAPHS OF CHILDREN ENGAGED IN PARTICULAR
CHILDREN ENGAGED IN PARTICULAR SPORTS IN, SOME CASES SPORTS IN
SPORTS IN, SOME CASES SPORTS IN WHICH THOSE CHILDREN HAD NEVER
WHICH THOSE CHILDREN HAD NEVER PARTICIPATED, LET ALONE WERE
PARTICIPATED, LET ALONE WERE COMPETITIVE IN OR QUALIFIED TO
COMPETITIVE IN OR QUALIFIED TO GAIN ADMISSION TO A UNIVERSITY
GAIN ADMISSION TO A UNIVERSITY ON THE BASIS OF.
ON THE BASIS OF. 33 PARENTS HAVE BEEN CHARGED,
33 PARENTS HAVE BEEN CHARGED, INCLUDING HOLLYWOOD STORES LORI
INCLUDING HOLLYWOOD STORES LORI LOUGHLIN AND FELICITY HUFFMAN.
LOUGHLIN AND FELICITY HUFFMAN. EXCEPT FOR A USC ADMINISTRATOR
EXCEPT FOR A USC ADMINISTRATOR WHO HAS BEEN CHARGED, THE
WHO HAS BEEN CHARGED, THE SCHOOLS THEMSELVES ARE NOT
SCHOOLS THEMSELVES ARE NOT BELIEVED TO HAVE BEEN INVOLVED
BELIEVED TO HAVE BEEN INVOLVED IN THE ALLEGED SCHEME.
IN THE ALLEGED SCHEME. JOINING ME NOW, TOM WINTER WHO
JOINING ME NOW, TOM WINTER WHO CERTAINLY GOT A BREAK FROM WHAT
CERTAINLY GOT A BREAK FROM WHAT HE NORMALLY DOES TO BE COVERING
HE NORMALLY DOES TO BE COVERING THIS ONE.
THIS ONE. NBC NATIONAL SECURITY AND
NBC NATIONAL SECURITY AND JUSTICE REPORTER JULIA AINSLEY
JUSTICE REPORTER JULIA AINSLEY AND FEDERAL PROSECUTOR WITH
AND FEDERAL PROSECUTOR WITH EXPERTISE IN RACKETEERING, WHICH
EXPERTISE IN RACKETEERING, WHICH IS WHAT SOME OF THESE CHARGES
IS WHAT SOME OF THESE CHARGES ARE, BARRETT BURGER.
ARE, BARRETT BURGER. TOM, LET’S START WITH YOU WITH
TOM, LET’S START WITH YOU WITH TWO NOTABLE FIGURES IN THE CASE,
TWO NOTABLE FIGURES IN THE CASE, THE TWO ACTRESSES.
THE TWO ACTRESSES. >> BOTH FELICITY HUFFMAN AND
>> BOTH FELICITY HUFFMAN AND LORI LOUGHLIN WERE INVOLVED TO
LORI LOUGHLIN WERE INVOLVED TO TRY TO GET THEIR DAUGHTERS INTO
TRY TO GET THEIR DAUGHTERS INTO UNIVERSITIES.
UNIVERSITIES. IN THE FACE OF FELICITY HUFFMAN,
IN THE FACE OF FELICITY HUFFMAN, IN ONE INSTANCE WITH ONE
IN ONE INSTANCE WITH ONE DAUGHTER ACCORDING TO E-MAILS
DAUGHTER ACCORDING TO E-MAILS AND THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN
AND THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THE COURT DOCUMENTS, ALI, SHE
THE COURT DOCUMENTS, ALI, SHE WAS ABLE TO WORK WITH ONE OF THE
WAS ABLE TO WORK WITH ONE OF THE PEOPLE CHARGED TO GET HER
PEOPLE CHARGED TO GET HER DAUGHTER TO TAKE AN S.A.T. FOR
DAUGHTER TO TAKE AN S.A.T. FOR AN UNLIMITED AMOUNT OF TIME.
AN UNLIMITED AMOUNT OF TIME. THAT CAN NORMALLY BE DONE FOR
THAT CAN NORMALLY BE DONE FOR VERY LEGITIMATE REASONS SUCH AS
VERY LEGITIMATE REASONS SUCH AS A LEARNING DISABILITY OR
A LEARNING DISABILITY OR PARTICULAR MEDICAL CONDITION.
PARTICULAR MEDICAL CONDITION. IN THIS CASE HUFFMAN COORDINATED
IN THIS CASE HUFFMAN COORDINATED WITH THIS COMPANY TO MAKE SURE
WITH THIS COMPANY TO MAKE SURE THAT HER DAUGHTER WENT TO THE
THAT HER DAUGHTER WENT TO THE RIGHT LOCATION FOR THE EXAM TO
RIGHT LOCATION FOR THE EXAM TO BE TAKEN WITH THE RIGHT PROCTOR
BE TAKEN WITH THE RIGHT PROCTOR WHO WAS THEN BRIBED, ACCORDING
WHO WAS THEN BRIBED, ACCORDING TO THE COURT DOCUMENTS.
TO THE COURT DOCUMENTS. IN A SEPARATE INSTANCE AND THE
IN A SEPARATE INSTANCE AND THE GOVERNMENT SAID SHE DID NOT GO
GOVERNMENT SAID SHE DID NOT GO THROUGH WITH THIS PLAN BUT THERE
THROUGH WITH THIS PLAN BUT THERE WAS GOING TO BE ANOTHER INSTANCE
WAS GOING TO BE ANOTHER INSTANCE WHERE SHE WAS GOING TO DO THE
WHERE SHE WAS GOING TO DO THE SAME SCHEME WITH HER OTHER
SAME SCHEME WITH HER OTHER DAUGHTER.
DAUGHTER. IT’S ALLEGED THAT TENS OF
IT’S ALLEGED THAT TENS OF THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS EXCHANGED
THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS EXCHANGED HAND.
HAND. FOR LORI LOUGHLIN, IT INVOLVED
FOR LORI LOUGHLIN, IT INVOLVED HER DAUGHTER AT USC.
HER DAUGHTER AT USC. IN THAT PARTICULAR INSTANCE LORI
IN THAT PARTICULAR INSTANCE LORI AND HER HUNDRED DOLLAR,SBAND COO
AND HER HUNDRED DOLLAR,SBAND COO GOT PICTURES OF THEIR DAUGHTER
GOT PICTURES OF THEIR DAUGHTER ON AN URG --
ON AN URG -- >> I DIDN’T KNOW WHAT AN URG IS
>> I DIDN’T KNOW WHAT AN URG IS SO --
SO -- >> IT’S THE ROWING MACHINE.
>> IT’S THE ROWING MACHINE. SO THEY GOT PICTURES OF HER ON
SO THEY GOT PICTURES OF HER ON AN URG TO SAY THAT SHE WAS THE
AN URG TO SAY THAT SHE WAS THE HEAD OR ONE OF THE PEOPLE ON
HEAD OR ONE OF THE PEOPLE ON CREW WITH THE L.A. HARBOR CLUB.
CREW WITH THE L.A. HARBOR CLUB. SHE HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH BEING
SHE HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH BEING ON CREW, ACCORDING TO THE COURT
ON CREW, ACCORDING TO THE COURT DOCUMENTS.
DOCUMENTS. AND SO THIS WAS PART OF A
AND SO THIS WAS PART OF A PACKAGE THAT ESSENTIALLY THEY
PACKAGE THAT ESSENTIALLY THEY PUT FORWARD TO USC TO TRY TO GET
PUT FORWARD TO USC TO TRY TO GET HER INTO THAT SCHOOL.
HER INTO THAT SCHOOL. NOW, WHAT WE’VE LEARNED IN THE
NOW, WHAT WE’VE LEARNED IN THE LAST COUPLE OF MINUTES IS THAT
LAST COUPLE OF MINUTES IS THAT FELICITY HUFFMAN IS IN FEDERAL
FELICITY HUFFMAN IS IN FEDERAL CUSTODY IN LOS ANGELES.
CUSTODY IN LOS ANGELES. SHE SHOULD BE PRESENTED IN COURT
SHE SHOULD BE PRESENTED IN COURT LATER TODAY.
LATER TODAY. IN ADDITION TO THAT, IT’S OUR
IN ADDITION TO THAT, IT’S OUR UNDERSTANDING BOTH IN THE
UNDERSTANDING BOTH IN THE REPORTING AND FROM U.S. LAW
REPORTING AND FROM U.S. LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS LORI IS
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS LORI IS NOT IN FEDERAL COSTUSTODY.
NOT IN FEDERAL COSTUSTODY. SHE’S OUT OF THE COUNTRY AND
SHE’S OUT OF THE COUNTRY AND WILL BE TAKEN INTO CUSTODY
WILL BE TAKEN INTO CUSTODY LATER.
LATER. >> JULIA, THERE ARE COACHES
>> JULIA, THERE ARE COACHES INVOLVED, THERE ARE GUIDANCE
INVOLVED, THERE ARE GUIDANCE COUNSELORS, THERE ARE TESTING
COUNSELORS, THERE ARE TESTING CENTERS.
CENTERS. TOM HAS JUST TALKED ABOUT THE
TOM HAS JUST TALKED ABOUT THE PARENTS.
PARENTS. THERE’S EVEN A FAKE CHARITY
THERE’S EVEN A FAKE CHARITY INVOLVED.
INVOLVED. >> THAT’S RIGHT, A.LI.
>> THAT’S RIGHT, A.LI. THIS GOES BACK TO 2011 AND THERE
THIS GOES BACK TO 2011 AND THERE WAS EVEN A YALE COACH WHO
WAS EVEN A YALE COACH WHO COOPERATED WITH THE FBI AS PART
COOPERATED WITH THE FBI AS PART OF THIS INVESTIGATION BECAUSE A
OF THIS INVESTIGATION BECAUSE A LOT OF THESE COACHES HAD TO
LOT OF THESE COACHES HAD TO KNOWINGLY AND FRAUDULENTLY SAY
KNOWINGLY AND FRAUDULENTLY SAY THAT THESE STUDENTS SHOULD BE
THAT THESE STUDENTS SHOULD BE GIVEN PREFERENCE IN THE
GIVEN PREFERENCE IN THE ADMISSIONS PROCESS BECAUSE THEY
ADMISSIONS PROCESS BECAUSE THEY HAD ATHLETIC POTENTIAL TO BE ON
HAD ATHLETIC POTENTIAL TO BE ON THESE TEAMS, LIKE THAT URG TEST.
THESE TEAMS, LIKE THAT URG TEST. THERE’S A STUDENT GOING OVER A
THERE’S A STUDENT GOING OVER A VERY HIGH POLE VAULT, SOMETHING
VERY HIGH POLE VAULT, SOMETHING THAT WOULD BE VERY DIFFICULT TO
THAT WOULD BE VERY DIFFICULT TO DO IF YOU WERE PUT UP TO THE
DO IF YOU WERE PUT UP TO THE TEST WITH NO POLE VAULTING
TEST WITH NO POLE VAULTING ABILITIES.
ABILITIES. THAT IS NOT THE STUDENT THAT IS
THAT IS NOT THE STUDENT THAT IS APPLYING.
APPLYING. THAT IS A PICTURE THE PARENT
THAT IS A PICTURE THE PARENT FOUND OFF OF THE INTERNET.
FOUND OFF OF THE INTERNET. THEY WOULD ESSENTIALLY BE PAYING
THEY WOULD ESSENTIALLY BE PAYING PEOPLE TO TELL THEM TO PUT
PEOPLE TO TELL THEM TO PUT TOGETHER A PORTFOLIO ON THEIR
TOGETHER A PORTFOLIO ON THEIR ATHLETIC ABILITIES.
ATHLETIC ABILITIES. ON THE TESTING SIDE, PEOPLE WERE
ON THE TESTING SIDE, PEOPLE WERE INVOLVED AS WELL, THESE TESTING
INVOLVED AS WELL, THESE TESTING CENTERS.
CENTERS. THERE WERE PEOPLE WHO WOULD COME
THERE WERE PEOPLE WHO WOULD COME AND TAKE THE TEST AWAY FROM WHAT
AND TAKE THE TEST AWAY FROM WHAT YOUR CHILD HAD DONE, CHANGE
YOUR CHILD HAD DONE, CHANGE ANSWERS TO GET A PARTICULAR
ANSWERS TO GET A PARTICULAR SCORE.
SCORE. YOU CAN SAY I THINK A 1600 MIGHT
YOU CAN SAY I THINK A 1600 MIGHT BE FLAGGED.
BE FLAGGED. LET’S COME DOWN AND GET
LET’S COME DOWN AND GET SOMETHING THAT COULD GET INTO A
SOMETHING THAT COULD GET INTO A SCHOOL BUT WOULD BE MUCH HIGHER
SCHOOL BUT WOULD BE MUCH HIGHER THAN WHAT THESE PARENTS THOUGHT
THAN WHAT THESE PARENTS THOUGHT THEIR CHILDREN COULD ACHIEVE ON
THEIR CHILDREN COULD ACHIEVE ON THEIR OWN.
THEIR OWN. A LOT OF MONEY CHANGING HANDS
A LOT OF MONEY CHANGING HANDS HERE.
HERE. AGAIN, IT DOESN’T SEEM THAT THE
AGAIN, IT DOESN’T SEEM THAT THE SCHOOLS KNEW THEY WERE BEING
SCHOOLS KNEW THEY WERE BEING FOOLED WHEN THEY GOT THESE
FOOLED WHEN THEY GOT THESE HIGHER TEST SCORES AND WERE TOLD
HIGHER TEST SCORES AND WERE TOLD THAT THESE STUDENTS HAD ATHLETIC
THAT THESE STUDENTS HAD ATHLETIC ABILITIES.
ABILITIES. BUT A NUMBER OF VERY ELITE
BUT A NUMBER OF VERY ELITE SCHOOLS ARE INVOLVED IN THIS,
SCHOOLS ARE INVOLVED IN THIS, FROM STANFORD TO YALE TO WAKE
FROM STANFORD TO YALE TO WAKE FOREST.
FOREST. IT RUNS THE GAMUT.
IT RUNS THE GAMUT. IT’S REALLY AMAZING.
IT’S REALLY AMAZING. I ENCOURAGE PEOPLE TO GO THROUGH
I ENCOURAGE PEOPLE TO GO THROUGH THESE DOCUMENTS TOM AND I HAVE
THESE DOCUMENTS TOM AND I HAVE BEEN PORING OVER ALL MORNING.
BEEN PORING OVER ALL MORNING. >> THE SCHOOLS ARE NOT CHARGED
>> THE SCHOOLS ARE NOT CHARGED AND NOT INVOLVED IN THE SCAM.
AND NOT INVOLVED IN THE SCAM. I THINK EVERYBODY IN THE COUNTRY
I THINK EVERYBODY IN THE COUNTRY SHOULD TAKE A MOMENT TO PAUSE
SHOULD TAKE A MOMENT TO PAUSE AND REALIZE THAT KIDS WERE
AND REALIZE THAT KIDS WERE ADMITTED INTO SCHOOLS -- IT’S
ADMITTED INTO SCHOOLS -- IT’S ONE THING IF YOUR TEST SCHOOLS
ONE THING IF YOUR TEST SCHOOLS ARE FAKED AND THE SCHOOL MAY NOT
ARE FAKED AND THE SCHOOL MAY NOT HAVE A WAY OF KNOWING THAT.
HAVE A WAY OF KNOWING THAT. BUT ON ATHLETIC ABILITY, WHICH
BUT ON ATHLETIC ABILITY, WHICH IS A MSHEASURABLE THING, THERE A
IS A MSHEASURABLE THING, THERE A KIDS THAT GOT INTO THESE SCHOOLS
KIDS THAT GOT INTO THESE SCHOOLS WHICH BRINGS COACHES INTO THIS
WHICH BRINGS COACHES INTO THIS THING.
THING. BARRETT, TELL ME HOW THIS IS
BARRETT, TELL ME HOW THIS IS RACKETEERING.
RACKETEERING. I GET WHY IT’S FRAUD.
I GET WHY IT’S FRAUD. WHY ARE THERE RACKETEERING
WHY ARE THERE RACKETEERING ALLEGATIONS?
ALLEGATIONS? >> I THINK WHEN MOST PEOPLE
>> I THINK WHEN MOST PEOPLE THINK OF RACKETEERING, THEY
THINK OF RACKETEERING, THEY THINK OF THE MOB.
THINK OF THE MOB. IN 1970 THE PURPOSE WAS TO
IN 1970 THE PURPOSE WAS TO INFILTRATE ORGANIZED MOB.
INFILTRATE ORGANIZED MOB. SINCE THEN PROSECUTORS HAVE USED
SINCE THEN PROSECUTORS HAVE USED THE STATUTE TO FOCUS ON
THE STATUTE TO FOCUS ON INSTANCES WHERE THERE’S A
INSTANCES WHERE THERE’S A PATTERN OF CRIMINAL ACTIVITY ON
PATTERN OF CRIMINAL ACTIVITY ON BEHALF OF THAT ENTERPRISE.
BEHALF OF THAT ENTERPRISE. SO THIS IS NOT JUST --
SO THIS IS NOT JUST -- >> A PATTERN, SOMETHING THAT CAN
>> A PATTERN, SOMETHING THAT CAN BE REPLICATED.
BE REPLICATED. >> EXACTLY.
>> EXACTLY. >> SOMETHING THAT FEELS A LITTLE
>> SOMETHING THAT FEELS A LITTLE MORE LIKE INDUSTRY THAN A
MORE LIKE INDUSTRY THAN A ONE-OFF.
ONE-OFF. >> IT’S A GREAT TOOL FOR
>> IT’S A GREAT TOOL FOR PROSECUTORS TO CHARGE BOTH STATE
PROSECUTORS TO CHARGE BOTH STATE AND FEDERAL CRIMES TOGETHER.
AND FEDERAL CRIMES TOGETHER. SO THE CRIME OF RACKETEERING IS
SO THE CRIME OF RACKETEERING IS A FEDERAL CRIME BUT IT’S THE
A FEDERAL CRIME BUT IT’S THE UNDERLYING CRIMINAL ACTS CAN BE
UNDERLYING CRIMINAL ACTS CAN BE STATE CRIMES THAT WOULD BE
STATE CRIMES THAT WOULD BE DIFFERENT FOR FEDERAL
DIFFERENT FOR FEDERAL PROSECUTORS TO OTHERWISE CHARGE.
PROSECUTORS TO OTHERWISE CHARGE. THIS IS A WAY OF BRINGING
THIS IS A WAY OF BRINGING TOGETHER A VARIETY OF DISCREET
TOGETHER A VARIETY OF DISCREET CRIMES, PUTTING THEM UNDER THE
CRIMES, PUTTING THEM UNDER THE UMBRELLA OF THIS RACKETEERING
UMBRELLA OF THIS RACKETEERING ENTERPRISE BECAUSE EVERYONE IS
ENTERPRISE BECAUSE EVERYONE IS FOCUSED ON WORKING FOR THE SAME
FOCUSED ON WORKING FOR THE SAME GROUP HERE.
GROUP HERE. >> TOM, RICK SINGER, WHAT DO WE
>> TOM, RICK SINGER, WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT HIM?
KNOW ABOUT HIM? >> HE HAS A PLEA AGREEMENT WITH
>> HE HAS A PLEA AGREEMENT WITH THE GOVERNMENT.
THE GOVERNMENT. WE JUST SAW HIM ENTERING FEDERAL
WE JUST SAW HIM ENTERING FEDERAL COURT IN MASSACHUSETTS.
COURT IN MASSACHUSETTS. WE KNOW THAT HE HAS A PLEA
WE KNOW THAT HE HAS A PLEA AGREEMENT AND AT THIS POINT WE
AGREEMENT AND AT THIS POINT WE EXPECT TO HEAR A LITTLE BIT MORE
EXPECT TO HEAR A LITTLE BIT MORE AS FAR AS HIS ROLE IN THIS.
AS FAR AS HIS ROLE IN THIS. HE’S SOMEBODY WHO LOOKING AT THE
HE’S SOMEBODY WHO LOOKING AT THE COURT DOCUMENTS, WE’RE STILL
COURT DOCUMENTS, WE’RE STILL GOING THROUGH THEM, HE MIGHT BE
GOING THROUGH THEM, HE MIGHT BE ONE OF THE PEOPLE WHO IS
ONE OF THE PEOPLE WHO IS COOPERATING IN THIS.
COOPERATING IN THIS. WE KNOW THAT ONE OF THE
WE KNOW THAT ONE OF THE COOPERATING WITNESSES ACTUALLY
COOPERATING WITNESSES ACTUALLY HAS AN OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE
HAS AN OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE CHARGE AGAINST THEM BECAUSE ONCE
CHARGE AGAINST THEM BECAUSE ONCE THEY STARTED TO COOPERATE WITH
THEY STARTED TO COOPERATE WITH THE GOVERNMENT, THEY TOOK TIME
THE GOVERNMENT, THEY TOOK TIME TO TIP OFF PEOPLE INVOLVED THAT
TO TIP OFF PEOPLE INVOLVED THAT THERE WAS AN INVESTIGATION.
THERE WAS AN INVESTIGATION. >> HAVEN’T PEOPLE LEARNED AT
>> HAVEN’T PEOPLE LEARNED AT THIS POINT?
THIS POINT? WE’VE TAUGHT THEM NOTHING ABOUT
WE’VE TAUGHT THEM NOTHING ABOUT LEGALITY FOR THE LAST COUPLE OF
LEGALITY FOR THE LAST COUPLE OF YEARS.
YEARS. >> ONCE THEY’RE COOPERATING,
>> ONCE THEY’RE COOPERATING, THEY’RE GOING TO FIND OUT IF YOU
THEY’RE GOING TO FIND OUT IF YOU DECIDE TO TIP PEOPLE OFF ABOUT
DECIDE TO TIP PEOPLE OFF ABOUT THE CASE.
THE CASE. THE THING THAT RANK ELLED LAW
THE THING THAT RANK ELLED LAW ENFORCEMENT HERE, THEY LOOK AT
ENFORCEMENT HERE, THEY LOOK AT THIS AND SAY THESE WOULD BE
THIS AND SAY THESE WOULD BE SPOTS AT THESE SCHOOLS THAT
SPOTS AT THESE SCHOOLS THAT OTHER PEOPLE THAT WEREN’T PAYING
OTHER PEOPLE THAT WEREN’T PAYING BRIBES, WEREN’T PART OF THIS
BRIBES, WEREN’T PART OF THIS RACKETEERING CONSPIRACY, THAT
RACKETEERING CONSPIRACY, THAT THEY WOULD HAVE OTHERWISE BEEN
THEY WOULD HAVE OTHERWISE BEEN ABLE TO GET INTO REALLY TERRIFIC
ABLE TO GET INTO REALLY TERRIFIC SCHOOLS OR REALLY TERRIFIC
SCHOOLS OR REALLY TERRIFIC ATHLETIC PROGRAMS.
ATHLETIC PROGRAMS. YOU HAVE THE HEAD COACH OF
YOU HAVE THE HEAD COACH OF YALE’S WOMEN’S SOCCER PROGRAM
YALE’S WOMEN’S SOCCER PROGRAM TIED UP IN THIS.
TIED UP IN THIS. YOU HAVE OTHER PROMINENT NCAA
YOU HAVE OTHER PROMINENT NCAA DIVISION I COACHES THAT ARE TIED
DIVISION I COACHES THAT ARE TIED UP IN THIS.
UP IN THIS. THIS OF COURSE FOLLOWS ON THE
THIS OF COURSE FOLLOWS ON THE HEELS OF ANOTHER -- ANOTHER CASE
HEELS OF ANOTHER -- ANOTHER CASE THAT WAS PROSECUTED BY FEDERAL
THAT WAS PROSECUTED BY FEDERAL PROSECUTORS HERE IN NEW YORK
PROSECUTORS HERE IN NEW YORK INVOLVING MEN’S COLLEGE
INVOLVING MEN’S COLLEGE BASKETBALL.
BASKETBALL. SO THERE’S CERTAINLY A BIT OF A
SO THERE’S CERTAINLY A BIT OF A STINK AROUND NCAA PROGRAMS AND
STINK AROUND NCAA PROGRAMS AND SOME OF THESE HIGH-PROFILE
SOME OF THESE HIGH-PROFILE SCHOOLS RIGHT NOW.
SCHOOLS RIGHT NOW. >> AS WE’RE LOOKING AT THE LIST
>> AS WE’RE LOOKING AT THE LIST OF THE 50 PEOPLE CHARGED, I
OF THE 50 PEOPLE CHARGED, I DON’T UNDERSTAND THIS BUT SOME
DON’T UNDERSTAND THIS BUT SOME ARE CHARGED BY INFORMATION, SOME
ARE CHARGED BY INFORMATION, SOME ARE CHARGED BY INDICTMENT AND
ARE CHARGED BY INDICTMENT AND SOME ARE CHARGED BY COMPLAINT.
SOME ARE CHARGED BY COMPLAINT. IS THAT RELEVANT?
IS THAT RELEVANT? >> YES AND NO.
>> YES AND NO. IT’S SOME IN THE WEEDS LEGAL
IT’S SOME IN THE WEEDS LEGAL JARGON THERE.
JARGON THERE. IF SOMEBODY IS COOPERATING, IT’S
IF SOMEBODY IS COOPERATING, IT’S LIKELY THEY WOULD BE CHARGED BY
LIKELY THEY WOULD BE CHARGED BY INFORMATION WHICH IS THE SAME AS
INFORMATION WHICH IS THE SAME AS AN INDICTMENT BUT THEY AGREE
AN INDICTMENT BUT THEY AGREE THEY’RE NOT GOING TO FORCE THE
THEY’RE NOT GOING TO FORCE THE PROSECUTORS TO GO TO THE GRAND
PROSECUTORS TO GO TO THE GRAND JURY.
JURY. >> BUT THEY’RE ALL CHARGED.
>> BUT THEY’RE ALL CHARGED. >> EXACTLY.
>> EXACTLY. THERE’S REALLY NO DIFFERENCE AT
THERE’S REALLY NO DIFFERENCE AT THIS POINT BETWEEN BEING CHARGED
THIS POINT BETWEEN BEING CHARGED BY COMPLAINT OR INDICTMENT.
BY COMPLAINT OR INDICTMENT. >> AND THESE ARE ALL CRIMINAL
>> AND THESE ARE ALL CRIMINAL CHARGES.
CHARGES. >> ALL CRIMINAL CHARGES AND ALL
>> ALL CRIMINAL CHARGES AND ALL HAVE PRETTY SERIOUS PENALTIES.